Sudoku
======

The user uses the program by entering the file name of the sudoku puzzle when prompted. This is the only user input taken, and after this, the puzzle will attempt to solve the puzzle, and output a solved puzzle if it finds one.

The program works internally based on two classes, a cell class and a sudoku class. The cell class works by setting up an options array, which contains nodes with the values of 1 through 9 to start. This class also initializes the cell's value to 0. The setBoardValue method allows the board value tobe set to something else at some point. The getValue functions allows the value of a specific cell to retrieved at some point. This class also contained member functions for removing from a list, finding the front of a list, finding a list's size, and functions for determining the beginning and ending iterator for a list. The sudoku class revolves around a 9 x 9 array of cell objects. The checkRow method goes through the row for any particular cell, and if it finds a non-zero value in the row, it will remove it from the options list for the origin cell. The checkCol and checkBox methods work similarly. The checkBox function is distinct in that it contains a nested for loop such that the top three elements of the box can be iterated through, followed by the middle three, and ending with the last three. The singletonRow method uses an iterator to iterate through the list of options for a given cell. After, through a while loop, the row is iterated through, and the options for each cell in the row will be compared, as long as the cell being checked still has a value of 0 (non-zero values will already have been handled by the single possibility algorithm. For each cell in the row with a value of zero, its options will be iterated through with an iterator, and each option will be compared to the option for the cell that is being checked. If the two options match, the value that belongs in the cell cannot be determined, so the while loop is broken so that the next option in the original cell's list is checked. The while loop will also break if every cell in the row is checked (and the original cell is arrived at). In this case, the match variable is still set to false, and the value for the original cell is set to the just checked option, since no other cell in that row had that option. This same general process is also followed with the singletonCol method and the singletonBox method. The performCheck method calls checkRow, checkCol, checkBox, singletonRow, singletonCol, and singletonBox for a particular cell. This method will return early if the single possibility checks reduce the size of the options list to 1 (meaning the correct value has been determined), or if any of the singleton methods are able to determine the correct value. The performCheck method is called in checkAll, which calls performCheck for every cell on the board. If no cell on the board has a value of 0 during this nested iteration through the board, then the solved variable remains true. This variable is returned to the solve function. This function calls checkAll, and if solved is returned as true, the while loop is broken, and the solved puzzle is outputted with a print function. The main function simply reads in each number in the text file one at a time and adds it to the board. Once the entire board has been set, the solve method is called, which attempts to solve the puzzle.

I verified the program by solving each of the three provided puzzles at sudokuwiki.org, and then comparing this solved puzzle to the solved puzzle outputted by my program. These solved puzzles matched for the sudoku.txt, medium.txt, and cc1.txt files, which verified that the solver indeed works. Throughout the coding process, I used several other strategies to help with debugging and writing the code. I often printed the board after a value was set in the check and singleton methods, since I wanted to be sure the correct value was being added to the board. I also often printed the options for a cell in order to see if the options were actually being removed when they were supposed to be.

What worked well for me were the single possibility and singleton algorithms, which, once implemented correctly, were able to solve the sudoku.txt, medium.txt, and cc1.txt. The reading in and printing of the board also worked well, and just involved a relatively iteration through the board. What did not work so well for me was accessing the private variables, and particularly the list. Performing methods associated with the normal STL list was something I spent a while trying to figure out. In the end, I realized I needed to make methods in the cell class that could remove and perform other list member functions, since accessing these methods from the returned list was not working. The single possibility solver was implemented by iterating through each row, column, and box corresponding to a cell, and if a value matching one of the remaining options for the cell was found, this option was removed from the cell's list. These options were removed until finally only one remained, and this would then be the value for that cell. With the singleton method, the options for a given cell were compared to the options of other cells in that row, column, or box, and if only one cell had a given option in a row, column, or box, that options would be made the value for that cell. 
